DOCS-9495 - azure sidecar guides (#26241)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/serverless/guide/azure_app_service_linux_containers_serverless_init.md

---

> title: Instrument Azure App Service with serverless-init - Linux Containers

Reviewer: This page isn't linked to from the Guides page - should it be?

* `1`, `1-alpine`: use these to track the latest minor releases, without breaking chagnes
* `1.x.x`, `1.x.x-alpine`: use these to pin to a precise version of the library
* `latest`, `latest-alpine`: use these to follow the latest version release, which may include breaking changes

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="nodejs,python,java,go,dotnet,ruby,php" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="nodejs" >}}

{{% svl-init-nodejs %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}

{{% svl-init-python %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="java" >}}

{{% svl-init-java %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="go" >}}

{{% svl-init-go %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="dotnet" >}}

{{% svl-init-dotnet %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="ruby" >}}

{{% svl-init-ruby %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="php" >}}

{{% svl-init-php %}}

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

### 2. Configure your application

Once the container is built and pushed to your registry, the last step is to set the required environment variables for the Datadog Agent:

> - `DD_API_KEY`: Datadog API key, used to send data to your Datadog account. It should be configured as a [Azure Secret][7] for privacy and safety issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `DD_API_KEY`: Datadog API key, used to send data to your Datadog account. It should be configured as an [Azure Secret][7] for privacy and safety.
```

- `DD_SITE`: Datadog endpoint and website. Select your site on the right side of this page. Your site is: {{< region-param key="dd_site" code="true" >}}.
- `DD_TRACE_ENABLED`: Set to `true` to enable tracing.

For more environment variables and their function, see [Additional Configurations](#additional-configurations).

### 3. Results

Once the deployment is completed, your metrics and traces are sent to Datadog. In Datadog, navigate to **Infrastructure->Serverless** to see your serverless metrics and traces.

## Deployment

{{% aas-workflow-linux %}}

## Additional configurations

- **Advanced Tracing:** The Datadog Agent already provides some basic tracing for popular frameworks. Follow the [advanced tracing guide][2] for more information.

- **Logs:** If you use the [Azure integration][1], your logs are already being collected. Alternatively, you can set the `DD_LOGS_ENABLED` environment variable to `true` to capture application logs through the serverless instrumentation directly.

> - **Custom Metrics:** You can submit custom metrics using a [DogStatsd client][3]. For monitoring Cloud Run and other serverless applications, use [distribution][8] metrics. Distributions provide `avg`, `sum`, `max`, `min`, and `count` aggregations by default. On the Metric Summary page, you can enable percentile aggregations (p50, p75, p90, p95, p99) and also manage tags. To monitor a distribution for a gauge metric type, use `avg` for both the [time and space aggregations][9]. To monitor a distribution for a count metric type, use `sum` for both the time and space aggregations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Custom Metrics:** You can submit custom metrics using a [DogStatsD client][3]. For monitoring Cloud Run and other serverless applications, use [distribution][8] metrics. Distributions provide `avg`, `sum`, `max`, `min`, and `count` aggregations by default. On the Metric Summary page, you can enable percentile aggregations (p50, p75, p90, p95, p99) and also manage tags. To monitor a distribution for a gauge metric type, use `avg` for both the [time and space aggregations][9]. To monitor a distribution for a count metric type, use `sum` for both the time and space aggregations.
```

- **Trace Sampling:**  To manage the APM traced request sampling rate for serverless applications, set the DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE environment variable on the function to a value between 0.000 (no tracing of Container App requests) and 1.000 (trace all Container App requests).

Metrics are calculated based on 100% of the application’s traffic, and remain accurate regardless of any sampling configuration.

### Environment Variables

| Variable | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
|`DD_API_KEY`| [Datadog API Key][6] - **Required**|
| `DD_SITE` | [Datadog site][4] - **Required** |
| `DD_LOGS_ENABLED` | When true, send logs (stdout and stderr) to Datadog. Defaults to false. |
| `DD_LOGS_INJECTION`| When true, enrich all logs with trace data for supported loggers in [Java][10], [Node.js][11], [.NET][12], and [PHP][13]. See additional docs for [Python][14], [Go][15], and [Ruby][16]. |

> | `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`|  Controls the trace ingestion sample rate `0.0` and `1.0`|

Reviewer: Not sure about this, but it reads a little oddly to me as-is?

```suggestion
| `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`|  Controls the trace ingestion sample rate between `0.0` and `1.0`.|
```

| `DD_SERVICE`      | See [Unified Service Tagging][5].                                       |
| `DD_VERSION`      | See [Unified Service Tagging][5].                                       |
| `DD_ENV`          | See [Unified Service Tagging][5].                                       |
| `DD_SOURCE`       | See [Unified Service Tagging][5].                                       |
| `DD_TAGS`         | See [Unified Service Tagging][5].                                       |

## Troubleshooting

If you are not receiving traces or custom metric data as expected, enable **App Service logs** to receive debugging logs.

{{< img src="serverless/azure_app_service/app-service-logs.png" style="width:100%;" >}}

> Share the content of the **Log stream** with [Datadog Support][14].

Reviewer: Not sure if this is the right link?
